apt-cache search and apt show
The apt-cache search command displays
much of the information stored
in the internal cached package database.
For example, let’s say we would like to
install the pure-ftpd application.
The first thing we have to do is to find
out whether or not the application
is present in the Kali Linux
repositories.
To do this, we simply provide the search
term to apt-cache search.
The output reveals that the application
is, in fact,
present in the Kali repository.
There are also a few authentication
extensions for the pure-ftpd application
that we could install if needed.
Interestingly enough, the resource-agents
package is showing up in our search
even though its name does not contain the
“pure-ftpd” keyword.
This is because apt-cache search looks
for the requested keyword
in the package’s description rather than
in the package name itself.
To confirm that the resource-agents
package description really contains
the “pure-ftpd” keyword, pass the package
name to apt show.
The output reveals why the
resource-agents application was
mysteriously showing up in the previous
search for pure-ftpd.